♪
[Boyd] Previously on From...
Everybody here just talks about
how afraid they are of dying.
Well. I don't think
that's the worst thing
that can happen to you here.
When I blacked out in the ruins.
it was almost like
I went somewhere.
And then I heard those children.
- They were screaming that word.
- Anghkooey.
[Jade] The bottle tree
was important to Miranda.
She had visions of these trees.
Somewhere in these
numbers is a key
to something that we
need to understand.
There is no baby.
Yes. there is. It's
just not yours.
[Fatima crying] Elgin. please!
Fatima is missing.
[Donna] What we're asking
for is a search party.
What if Fatima is out
doing something to help us?
I think she's gonna be okay.
The last place we saw
her was out at the shack.
which is about here.
So. we've got people
covering this whole area
in and around town.
which leaves here. here.
What was she doing?
- What?
- [door opens]
Out at the... shack.
- Why was she out there?
- [door closes]
Hey.
I think Elgin knows.
I think he knows
where Fatima is.
[ominous music playing]
[grunting]
[clattering]
[inhales sharply]
[groaning]
[breathing heavily]
[crying]
[screaming]
["Que Sera. Sera (Whatever
Will Be. Will Be)" plays]
♪ When I was just a little boy ♪
♪ I asked my father ♪
♪ "What will I be?" ♪
♪ "Will I be handsome?" ♪
♪ "Will I be rich?" ♪
♪ Here's what he said to me ♪
♪ Que sera sera ♪
♪ Whatever will be will be ♪
♪ The future's not ours to see ♪
♪ Que sera sera ♪
♪ What will be will be ♪
♪ Now I have
children of my own ♪
♪ They ask their father ♪
♪ "What will I be?" ♪
♪ "Will I be pretty?" ♪
♪ "Will I be rich?" ♪
♪ I tell them tenderly ♪
♪ Que sera sera ♪
♪ Whatever will be will be ♪
♪ The future's not ours to see ♪
♪ Que sera sera ♪
♪ What will be will be ♪
♪
He said she was fine and
that this was all important.
He was so calm about it.
He said I shouldn't be afraid.
Look. I don't know
if he just snapped
or if something here is
actually talking to him.
Where is he now?
Colony House.
You two go up there.
And make sure he does not leave.
- Okay. What are you gonna do?
- Just go.
[door opens]
[Ethan] Do you think
they found Fatima yet?
[Jim] I sure hope so.
[door opens]
[clears throat]
- [Ethan] Victor.
- [Victor] Oh.
- What are you doing here?
- Your mom fell down.
What?
[door opens and closes]
Thank you. honey.
- What happened?
- Mm.
- I'm okay. I'm okay.
- Yeah?
- Yeah. yeah.
I saw the Boy in White.
Really?
Yeah.
What did he say?
- He wasn't very helpful.
- [door opens]
- Let's go to the diner.
- I don't want to.
Mom and Dad need
to talk. Come on.
- Wanna come?
- No.
Come on. I'm hungry.
The little girl... she
led us to the root cellar.
Victor was there.
He was really upset.
He remembered something
about his mother
and the night she left.
When I hugged him...
I felt like Miranda was there.
What do you mean?
I don't know how to explain it.
but I could feel her.
I could feel her in that room.
And then she took me back
to the night it happened.
the night she left her children.
the night she went to the tree.
So you had. like. a vision?
No. No. no. no. no. no.
It was not a vision.
It was more than that.
[sighs] Somehow.
Miranda was there.
and she was trying
to tell me something.
We're closed!
You're gonna wanna hear this.
[sighs] No offense. Jim.
but I think I've heard
just about enough.
Look. I'm... I'm sorry
about the way I came
in here yesterday.
- I shouldn't have.
- [sighs]
I'm scared.
Things are happening
in my family
that I don't know how
to protect them from.
But the truth is.
I think you might.
I figured you might be here.
I need you to come up
to Colony House with me.
Elgin's been acting strange.
From what Ellis tells
me. the kid's been
under a lot of stress.
plus he and Tillie were close.
So. what happened to
her may have just...
Yeah. I don't know.
Anyway. he told Ellis
that Fatima and the baby
are gonna be the reason
we all get to go home.
Now. that sound familiar?
What do you need me to do?
I need you to talk to
him. make him understand
that if he really is
talking to something here.
its intentions aren't good.
You of all people
understand that. okay?
- Just remember...
- [door closes]
Hey. What the hell's going on?
Ellis and Kenny are inside.
saying Elgin can't leave.
- Where's Acosta?
- She's still out looking.
I came back to see if
anyone found anything.
How many people you got inside?
I don't know. A few. Most
people are still out searching.
I need you to clear the house.
When she got to
the tree... [sighs]
she was so close.
But one of these things
came from the woods and...
it smiled.
And you watched Miranda die.
You've had visions
before. right?
Not like this.
It's always more like
I'm seeing something
that shouldn't be there.
Like. that day that I saw
the Civil War soldier.
it's not like I was
back in the Civil War.
This is... this is different.
Look. you said
something interesting.
You said that it felt
like Miranda was trying
to tell you something.
- I know it sounds crazy.
- [Jade] No. it doesn't.
Not here. anyway.
[exhales deeply]
Okay. Um... [chuckles]
The first law of thermodynamics
is that energy can neither
be created nor destroyed.
It can only change from
one form to another.
And our thoughts.
our memories...
our souls.
if you believe in
that sort of thing.
they're made of energy.
And that energy...
Maybe here. that
energy... I don't know.
maybe it lingers.
All right. look. you... you
said it was one of those...
those creepy kids that led
you to the root cellar. right?
- Yeah. a little girl.
- [Jade] Okay.
Whatever it was
Miranda showed you.
those kids wanted you to see.
Where were you when you
saw the little girl?
Out by Victor's truck.
Elgin.
Mind if we talk to
you for a minute?
Yeah. Okay.
We'll go to my room.
- I'll take that.
- Yeah.
[Boyd] Just in there.
[Boyd clears throat]
Go on. Have a seat.
Have a seat.
Can you watch the door for me?
I mean. it looks like you. uh.
packed supplies
for a couple days.
Where were you going?
I was just...
[Boyd] Yeah.
I'm gonna ask you something.
and I want you to
tell me the truth.
Do you know where Fatima is?
- Elgin?
- Answer the question.
She told me not to say
anything. I just...
I know how much you
all care about her.
When you told me
about your mom...
I can't even imagine what
you're going through.
I wanted to help. I don't
want to hurt anybody.
But you have to understand.
what's happening
is a good thing.
Elgin. you said she told you
not to say anything. Who is she?
I know it sounds crazy.
but I think she's an angel.
- Elgin. there's...
- [Elgin] She's here to help us!
Something is happening
here that's beyond
our ability to understand.
like in the Bible.
People never really
understood then.
But they had faith.
even when it was hard.
especially when it's hard.
Fatima's baby is going
to save all of us.
Hey. Elgin. I need you
to listen to me. okay?
- There is no baby.
- That's not true.
Kristi and Marielle did an
ultrasound in the clinic.
And when they
pulled up the image.
there was nothing there.
Whatever's growing inside
her is not a child.
The things it's done to her.
the things it's made her do...
You don't understand. She
explained all that to me.
Wait. The angel?
Yes.
[Sara] Elgin.
The day we met. I... told
you I killed my brother.
Do you know why that happened?
There were voices
here that told me
if I killed a little boy.
we would all get to go home.
This place...
it doesn't give.
It takes.
And what it's doing to you...
But do you see how
it's different?
No one is dying here.
Fatima is gonna be fine.
You don't fucking know that.
okay? You don't know that!
Once the baby is born.
we all get to go home.
Elgin. even if she's pregnant.
that's still months away.
No. It's grown.
You should see Fatima's belly.
- Okay. Where the fuck is she?
- No. no. no! Hey!
- Where the fuck is she?
- I can't!
- Kenny!
- [all shouting at once]
- Kenny. Kenny!
- I'll fucking kill you!
- Where is she?
- I can't! I can't!
[Boyd] All right! All
right! Everybody out!
- Hey! Just relax!
- Out! Out! Outside!
[Boyd] Everybody.
now! Let's go!
No. He knows where
she is. all right?
- I can't just let him sit there!
- I know. I know. Just breathe.
No. I don't need
to fucking breathe!
- What I need is to find my wife!
- Listen to me. Listen to me.
We're gonna find out
everything that he knows.
I just need you to calm down.
What he said about the baby.
about how big Fatima's gotten.
do you think it's true?
I don't know. Donna.
[Sara] He's not
gonna tell you!
I know what it's like to
have this place in your head.
If he really believes what he's
saying is gonna save everyone.
he's not gonna tell
you where she is.
Where do you keep your tools?
- Boyd.
- Where?
The shed. They're in the shed.
Whoa. Boyd.
You stay by the door.
He doesn't come out.
No one... goes
back in that room.
[dramatic music playing]
Victor.
Uh. how are things
going with. uh. Jasper?
Did he say anything
interesting so far?
It's just a doll.
You were right.
Dolls don't talk.
Oh.
Look. I... [sighs]
I-I-I just wanted to say.
I'm sorry I haven't
been more help.
All this... it's
been a lot for me.
But that's no excuse.
- From now on...
- I have to show you something.
Okay.
It's gonna make you angry.
It's... it's gonna
make you hate me.
What?
But I have to show you.
And then we'll be done.
Uh. done with what?
It's this way.
Okay. okay. okay.
- You really gonna do this?
- [sighs]
I don't got time for you today.
What comes first?
You gonna use the
saw or the hammer?
Oh. you know what you should do?
You should go old school.
Get yourself some pliers and
rip his fingernails right off.
Well. if that's what it takes.
You really don't see
the irony. do you?
What the fuck are
you talking about?
Oh. I don't know. When
Fatima killed Tillie.
you didn't even blink.
I mean. you did everything
you could to protect her.
You took her out to the shed.
You lied to the people
you claim to care about.
Hell. Kenny's in
there right now.
He still doesn't
know what she did.
What happened wasn't her fault.
Okay. and tell me how that's
any different with Elgin.
I mean. this place
got inside his head.
made him think he was
doing something good.
Convinced him he was
actually protecting Fatima.
And now. you're out here getting
ready to go medieval on him.
Bit of a double standard.
don't you think?
It's different.
There's nothing I
could do about Tillie.
Oh. bullshit. Tell yourself
anything you want. Boyd.
I mean. you... you
walk around here
like you're some big
knight in shining armor.
Mr. Noble Sheriff.
Push comes to shove. you're
no different than anyone else.
You protect what's yours.
and you fuck anyone
who gets in your way. You were
supposed to be better than this.
Hey. you were
supposed to be here!
You were...
You and I were supposed to
figure this out together!
You were the one who went
in the fucking street
and got his throat slit!
So. don't you come
in here and judge...
You don't get to judge me.
I'm doing the best I can.
You know there's no coming
back from this. right?
You said that you weren't
gonna let this place break you.
But if you do this.
this place has won.
And if I don't... uh...
my daughter-in-law dies.
Well. that's why they call
it a rock and a hard place.
not a rock and a
soft. comfy pillow.
You need to decide
right now who you are.
because that's who you're
gonna be from now on.
Someone open this door!
Please! [sobbing]
[panting]
[clattering]
[continues panting]
- [screams]
- [shatters]
[panting]
[ominous music playing]
[inhales sharply. groans]
[panting]
What are we doing here?
I thought maybe
there was a reason
they came out to you here.
Look. The only
thing tying together
all the crazy that
we've seen. right...
me. you. Miranda... the...
the one point of overlap
in all our Venn
diagrams of crazy...
Is the children.
Wait. You've seen them too?
In the cavern.
They were laying on these...
these slabs of rock.
saying that word.
that "Anghkooey."
- Yeah.
- "Anghkooey."
over and over again.
And I looked up.
There was this hole
in the ceiling.
And there was this mass
of... of... of roots.
this tangle forming
that fucking symbol.
The roots of the tree.
What'd you say?
The Boy in White...
Victor heard him.
He said when the kids
were on the stones.
they poured their hopes into
the roots that made the symbol.
and then those roots
became the tree.
Is it the bottle tree?
Uh. yeah. I think so.
Okay. So the. uh. creepy kids
made a magic tree.
And the symbol that has been
plaguing me this whole
time... [chuckles]
[Jade laughing]
You could have just
fucking told me!
- You didn't have to...
- Jade. Jade.
No. no! I am sick...
I am sick and tired of
getting dicked around!
If you really want our help.
if there is something you
need us to understand.
you're gonna have to
do a little better.
because we are not getting it!
You hear me? Message is
not fucking received!
So. we're gonna sit here.
and we're gonna wait.
And when you decide
that you have
something more to say
than fucking "Anghkooey."
you know where to find us!
You feel better now?
No. Not really.
[grunting]
[buzzing]
- [continues grunting]
- [buzzing continues]
[buzzing continuing]
[grunts]
[buzzing continues]
[inhales sharply]
[groans]
You're not giving
yourself time to heal.
Well. Fatima's still out
there. I can't just sit here.
I'm gonna get some fresh gauze.
You were really
quiet last night.
after they brought Julie in.
I just felt bad.
- I mean. she's...
- [clattering]
Uh. Randall?
Hey. what happened
to your bandage?
It fell off.
Uh. where's the stuff from
the ambulance. the new stuff?
- It's in the cabinets.
- No. not the medicine.
The equipment. Where did
you put the equipment?
There's a supply closet
downstairs. We...
- Great.
- [Marielle] Randall.
[buzzing continues]
[grunting]
[panting]
[buzzing continues]
[grunts loudly]
[grunting]
[buzzing continues]
[grunting ]
[beeping]
[grunting]
[buzzing continuing]
[grunting loudly]
[emitting high-pitched tone]
[grunting]
- Stop!
- [Randall grunting]
- [rapid beeping]
- Hey. hey. hey!
- [Randall grunts]
- Hey!
I'm trying to make
it fucking stop!
- Hey!
- [grunting]
Hey! Look at me! Hey!
- Look at me. Hey. hey.
- [panting]
- You're gonna be okay.
You're gonna be all
right. Come here.
[panting]
[door closes]
[ominous music playing]
No one comes upstairs.
- Dad. just...
- Nobody comes upstairs.
- You make sure of that. okay?
- Yeah.
What happens next...
that's on me.
[footsteps ascend stairs]
Boyd.
Go downstairs now. Kenny.
We should talk to him again.
Look. He's a good kid.
and there's gotta be a way
to make him understand this.
Fatima's out there.
She may be running out of time.
Go downstairs.
Please?
[ominous music playing]
[door closes]
I can't tell you.
I wish I could.
but... but I can't.
I understand.
You need to do what
you need to do.
Now I need to do
what I need to do.
[thuds]
[clatters]
[grunting]
[under breath] Motherfucker.
[camera shutter clicks. whirs]
That's how she
sends me messages.
I think she wants
to talk to you.
[dramatic music playing]
Here.
Okay.
Victor. where are we going?
We're here.
We're here?
What is that?
I tried to make it pretty.
The way she would have liked it.
Hmm? Wait.
This is where I buried Mom.
I thought you'd want to see.
Oh. God.
[gasps]
[Henry exhales deeply]
Is that...
Is that Eloise?
I think so.
All I found were pieces.
[whimpering]
She was so small.
There wasn't much left.
[breathing unsteadily]
It was my fault.
What?
I thought Jasper told
Christopher the secrets.
It wasn't Jasper. It
was the Boy in White.
I was wrong. He told
Christopher about...
about the children and the tree.
[crying] But I was
the one that told Mom.
[Victor crying]
I told her that the tree would
bring her to the children.
[sniffling] I was the reason
that she left that night. Dad.
- I was the reason that she died.
- Victor. you know...
If I'd just not said anything.
she would still be here. and
Eloise would still be here.
No. Victor. you were
just a boy. You...
I should have died
that night. too.
What?
And you should
pretend that I did.
You don't have to
be my dad anymore.
No. Wait. Stop.
Goddamn it! I said stop!
You don't ever say that again!
Do you hear me?!
You don't ever...
I'm your dad.
I will never stop
being your dad.
Your mother did what she
did because she loved you.
[whimpering]
She was trying to protect you.
[sniffling]
That's my job now.
Okay?
That's my job.
[dramatic music plays]
[Jade] Listen. If those
kids made the tree.
then those messages in
the bottles. the numbers.
they have to matter.
How do we know the
numbers mean anything?
We don't even know
who put them there.
I mean. think of all the
people who have been here.
We could be chasing
someone's random delusion.
No! Miranda knew those
bottles were important.
Why else would she have a
replica in her backyard?
She's right. Like. there's
something there. There has
- to be something there.
- Of course. There has to be.
All right. Okay. There's
ten numbers. right?
- Two are backwards?
- Yes. the two and the sevens.
Great. So that
means there's 12.
And believe me. I have tried
every mathematical.
astronomical. astrological.
Babylonian 12-point numerical
cipher I can imagine.
The Zodiac. months of the
year. fucking eggs in a carton.
Bent over backwards twisting it
into some version of
the Fibonacci sequence.
There's nothing
there. Believe me.
Aren't there 12
notes in a scale?
What'd you say?
Music. My mom was
a piano teacher.
She used to say that music
is the universal language.
I mean. there are 12
notes in a scale. right?
A through G with the
flats and the sharp.
Tea Cup. you are
a fucking genius.
I love you. Uh. we
need to get to the bar.
You need to go to your house.
- Why?
- Victor's mother had a violin.
He hid it somewhere
in your basement.
- Why?
- Because I kept stealing it.
Just meet us at the bar.
Come on. people! Let's go!
- [door closes]
- How's he doing?
I gave him something that
should help him sleep.
Well. what are we gonna
do when he wakes up?
I mean. he tried to...
He had the paddle on his head.
I don't know.
Look. I've... I've
tried to be respectful.
and I've tried to
give you space.
but I just really need you
to talk to me right now.
About what?
Randall just tried to
lobotomize himself.
Julie is a mess. and you're
acting like everything's fine.
Hey. Look. I don't know what
the three of you went through.
but I just need you to
tell me if you're okay.
- Kristi.
- No.
Look at me.
Are you okay?
No. I'm not.
And I don't think any
of us are gonna be.
- Okay.
- Please. can you...
can you tell me what
was in the picture?
Boyd.
What was in the picture?
That's what you wanna know. huh?
Yes. Can... can you just...
[grunting]
Can you tell me what
was in the picture?
You wanna know what was
in the picture. do you?
[laughs bitterly]
You know what was in
the fucking picture?
I'll tell you what
was in the picture.
It was a picture of my house.
the house that I bought
with my wife when I retired.
the one that we were going to
when I ran into
that fucking tree.
The only thing missing
was the boat.
[grunts]
[tools clatter]
Do you see what this means?
She's trying to show you.
We're going home.
All you have to do is wait.
No.
[tools clanking]
Boyd.
Whatever it is you
think you got to do.
you don't have to do it.
I would never. ever hurt Fatima.
[banging]
She's always been kind to me.
[clicking]
Everything I'm doing is for her.
It's to help us.
If you just give it
a little more time...
We don't have any fucking time!
You took my family.
Do you understand that?
You took someone I love.
and you put her in danger.
I'm sorry about what
happened to you.
But we're not gonna wait.
We are not gonna talk.
You're gonna tell
me where she is.
- or I am going to hurt you.
- I can't. I can't.
And I'm not gonna
stop hurting you
until you tell me
what I need to know.
Tell me you understand.
- Tell me!
- I understand.
Good.
[ominous music playing]
Where is she?
[breathing heavily]
Put your hand on the table.
I can't.
No. please.
No. Boyd. [grunting]
[Boyd] We're playing. are we?
[grunting loudly]
Please. Boyd. Just... just wait.
- Where is she?
- Just...
- It's your last chance.
- I can't. Boyd. I can't.
I can't.
- [Boyd grunting]
- [Elgin shouting. groaning]
Huh?! Where is she?!
[Elgin shouting distantly]
[Boyd] I don't care!
[yelling indistinctly]
[door closes]
Hey. Any news on Fatima?
- [Elgin screaming in distance]
- What the fuck was that?
- [Kenny] Dani. listen...
- [shouting]
[Donna] Hey! No. no. no!
Don't let her get up there!
Dani. you don't understand!
- Please. please. Boyd.
- Huh? Listen!
I'm not playing with you!
Where is she?!
- Jesus.
- [Ellis] Hey!
[sobbing]
What the fuck are you doing?
Turn around and
walk out the door!
- Dani. come on.
- Don't fucking touch me!
Hey. you do not understand
what is going on here!
Then explain it to me.
Everyone downstairs.
- What the...
- [groaning loudly]
- Dad!
- Downstairs!
Let's go.
How do we know in
what order they go in?
Well... we treat it
like any composition.
We try to figure out what is
a chord and what is a melody.
2. 9. 7. 5.2975.
- The 2 is backwards.
- Mm-hmm.
So. that would be a G
instead of a B. okay.
followed by F sharp. D. E. Okay.
So. if it was a melody. it
would be something like...
♪ Dah dah dah dah ♪
- G. F sharp. E. D.
- Uh-huh.
♪ G. G. another backwards two ♪
♪ G. G. D. C. C ♪
♪ Dah. dah. dah-dah ♪
♪ Dah dah dah dah ♪
[humming]
What's wrong?
[continues humming]
♪ Dah dah dah dah ♪
- D. D.
- [door opens]
[Jade humming]
Found it. How are you
guys coming along?
No. wait. Wait. wait. wait.
♪ Dah dah dah dah dah dah ♪
♪ Dah dah dah ♪
♪ Dah dah dah dah ♪
♪ Yah dah dah dah ♪
What is that?
I don't know. I don't know.
I've never heard this before.
I just. um... uh...
I just... I looked
at the numbers.
I looked at the
notes. and I just...
You just what?
I could hear the music.
[gasps]
All right.
♪ Dah dah dah dah ♪
- Wait.
- [Jade singing]
Hey. stop.
What?! What?!
I'm not so sure
this is a good idea.
What are you talking about?
You cracked the code.
Yeah. and the music just
magically popped into your head.
Doesn't that strike you as odd?
Well. I... [chuckles]
Everything about
this place is odd.
And this place is trying to
manipulate us. to hurt us.
Oh. God. Jim. how... how is
playing a song gonna hurt us?
[Jim] Are... are you
forgetting what Boyd said
about the haunted music box
and how it nearly
killed everyone
or... or the... the
jukeboxes in the diner
that just magically
turn on by themselves?
All right. Okay. So.
what are you saying?
We just ignore this?
We forget about it?
No. We can't.
You know. maybe we shouldn't
play it here in town.
just to be safe.
just to make sure.
Well. I don't know if
going out in the woods
is gonna do much good.
I mean. what's the blast
radius on an evil song?
[Tabitha] Well. the message
was left at the tree.
Maybe we should play it there.
[Fatima breathing heavily]
[grunting]
[breathing heavily]
[ominous music playing]
♪
[groaning]
[gasps]
- [female voice] Stop!
- [gasping]
[breathing heavily]
No. no. no. no. no. no.
It's coming.
[splattering]
[breathing heavily]
[indistinct conversations]
What if we forget
what she was like?
What?
Tian-Chen.
I don't wanna forget
what she was like.
You won't.
Why would you think that?
Because I'm starting to
forget what Thomas was like.
I have to tell you something.
When we went to those ruins.
when I walked inside. I...
I didn't just have a dream.
I think I went somewhere.
What do you mean?
I don't know how. but I...
When we went to the ruins.
suddenly I was in a chamber.
And I saw me and
Randall and Marielle
chained to the wall.
What were you doing?
We were screaming.
I think that's where we were
when we couldn't wake up.
But then I left the chamber.
and I went into the tunnels.
I heard Mom's voice.
And she was talking to Victor.
Remember how she said
that Victor was the one
who helped her find her
way out of the tunnels
that night when the
house fell down?
I think that's what I heard.
but I think I was
actually there.
like... like I somehow
went back to that night.
You're a Storywalker.
What?
Someone who can visit
chapters of the story
that already happened.
What...
So. I go back to those ruins.
do you... do you think
I could do it again?
Maybe. Why?
Well. if...
[lowered voice] ...this is real.
that means I can change things.
I can save Tian-Chen.
Maybe I could even save Thomas.
Mm. it doesn't work like that.
- But you just said...
- You can visit the chapters.
But you can't change them.
Why?
No one can change a story
once it's been told.
It is not what it looks like.
No? Because it looked like
you were torturing that kid.
- You're really okay with this?
- He knows where Fatima is.
Look. I get that you wanna
find her. Okay? I do.
But there is a right and
a wrong way to do this.
[Boyd] Tell me the right way.
You got all the answers! Tell
me the right way to do this!
[Dani] I don't know.
but maybe something
that doesn't involve
torturing a scared kid.
[sobbing]
Sara.
Hi. Elgin.
[crying]
I'd tell you if I
could. but... I can't.
It's okay.
I understand.
That first day.
when I saw you in the church.
my heart broke for you.
I thought. "He seems so sweet.
so kind."
[groans softly]
I was like that once.
I think...
maybe we're exactly what
this place looks for.
No.
People who just want to help.
Sara. can you please
tell Boyd to stop?
He'll listen to you.
If we just wait a
little longer...
Then Fatima could die.
- No! She's not... Sara. no!
- Yes! Yes!
I know you don't believe that.
I know that you think that
you're saving everyone.
Sara. please!
[Elgin groaning. crying]
Boyd doesn't understand
how far he needs to go
to make you tell him.
[crying]
Don't...
[ominous music playing]
He's a good man.
And this place.
it's taken so much from him.
I won't let it take his soul.
Sara.
I've already given it mine.
This is not Camden! I'm
not debating this with you!
It's happening!
You got a problem?
Take it up with me
after Fatima is safe!
- Is this what you mean by trust?
- Yeah.
Okay. How's it gonna play
when I go and tell everyone
- what you're doing?
- Are you...
- [Elgin yelling in distance]
- Shit.
Go!
[Elgin screaming]
[screams continuing]
[Boyd] Sara?
[Elgin sobbing]
Hey. Sara.
[Elgin crying]
[whimpering]
Sara. what...
She's in the root cellar.
If anyone's having
second thoughts.
speak now or forever
hold your peace.
Go ahead.
[playing seven notes]
♪
[playing seven different notes]
[playing first set of notes]
[screaming in pain]
[second set of notes playing]
[Fatima continues screaming]
[playing first set of notes]
♪
[playing second set of notes]
[screaming]
[Fatima screaming. muffled]
[continues screaming]
[panting]
[grunting]
[Fatima panting]
[dramatic music playing]
[rumbling outside]
- [door unlocks]
- [grunting]
Fatima! Hey.
Hey. I'm here. I'm here.
[all panting]
She took it. [crying]
What?
She... she... she took it.
The... the thing. she...
she took it down there.
It's okay. It's okay.
It's okay now.
We're gonna get you out of here.
Dad?
You and Kenny get her
back to Colony House.
What?
- I need to see it.
- Boyd. we...
Look. Whatever this is.
I'm not gonna be blindsided
by this place again.
No. Dad. what are
you... You can't...
Look. Go. Take
care of your wife.
I'll be right behind you. okay?
♪
[score playing Jade's melody]
[playing longer melody]
They're here.
What? Where?
[crows cawing distantly]
Do you see them?
[dramatic music playing]
Come on. Keep
playing. Keep playing.
[playing longer melody]
♪
[score playing Jade's melody]
- You're okay.
- [whimpering]
You're okay.
No. Ellis. I-I-I saw them.
I saw what they did.
- What?
- Those things
that come out at night.
I saw what they are.
They sacrificed
their... their children.
because It promised them
that they would live forever.
♪
Anghkooey.
Remember.
- What's that?
- Anghkooey.
It means "remember."
[crying]
- We tried to save them...
- No.
- Because one of them...
- No. no. no. no.
Oh. God.
No. no. no. I can't.
I can't. I can't.
What just happened?
We used to sing them lullabies.
Tabitha.
- No. I can't.
- Hey. Hey.
- No. no. no. no. no. I can't.
- Tab...
You can't?
- Please. talk to me.
- I know why.
I know why I see those children.
- Okay.
- Why Jade can see them.
It's why there's more
than one bracelet.
I kept making them.
Somewhere deep down. I remember.
[crying]
I-I don't know what
the fuck you're saying!
I don't understand.
It's because we've
been here before.
me and Jade.
The reason I felt
what Miranda felt
is because I was Miranda.
And Jade... Jade
was Christopher.
We've come back
over and over again
because we failed
the first time.
- The first time?
- Yes.
Jade and I were here
at the beginning.
We tried to save those
children and set them free...
because one of them was ours.
[sobbing]
She was our daughter.
No. No. that's not...
It's true. It's
true. I feel it.
And I need some time. honey.
Can you give me some time?
- Yeah.
- Yeah?
[dramatic music playing]
[Jim] Sometimes I
remember what it was like
when it wasn't like this.
what it was like before.
[pensive music playing]
♪
[Julie] Dad! Can you hear me?!
- Julie?!
- Dad!
I'm over here!
Over here!
Dad! Dad. you have to run!
You need to get
to town right now!
- What's happened to you?
- You need to listen to me!
It's not safe! I don't... I
think this is when it happens!
- Okay. Slow down. We're okay.
- No. no. Listen to me.
- It's okay.
- I need to change the story.
- Dad. please!
- All right.
That was a hell of a song.
[ominous music playing]
♪
That Jade sure can play.
- Get outta here. Run.
- No. you don't understand.
Run. Run.
This didn't have to
happen. you know.
Back up.
Knowledge comes with a cost.
I said back the fuck up!
Dad. please!
I did try to warn you.
[grunting]
[gasping]
[banging]
Get off him!
[grunting]
Your wife shouldn't
have dug that hole. Jim.
[gasping]
No!
♪
[birds chirping]
[train horn blowing in distance]
["Beautiful Day" by
Amos Lee playing]
♪ Woke up this morning with
a bear inside my brain ♪
♪ Scratchin' and a-clawin' ♪
♪ Tryin' to get
out of its cage ♪
♪ There ain't no taming it ♪
♪ There ain't no blaming it ♪
♪ For its animal ways ♪
♪ I let him out to play ♪
[man] "This'll
be the third time
to the south face of the quarry.
I know she's still
hiding traces of pyrite.
And today... I'm feeling lucky."
♪ Bound and gettin' on ♪
♪ But I'm still
tryin' to get along ♪
- [cellphone vibrating]
- ♪ She says to me ♪
♪ She sees a
sadness in my eyes ♪
- [vibrating continues]
- ♪ I was trying to hide it ♪
♪ While I waited for the
worst of it to fade ♪
♪ It's a beautiful day ♪
♪ Beautiful day ♪
♪ A beautiful day ♪
[jet roaring]
[crow cawing]
[train horn blowing in distance]
[cawing continues]
[sighs]
[pen scratching paper]
[scraping]
I've been looking
all over for you.
[rocks clacking]
[hissing and snapping]
Aah! Fuck!
Ahh! Ahh!
[wincing and gasping]
[rattling]
Gah! Shit!
Fuck! Ah! Ahh. Ah.
Gotta get... get out of here.
No. no. no!
Gah!
[gasping]
[yelling]
[wincing]
[yells]
[sucking]
[spits]
[gasps]
[sucks]
[spits]
Ah! [panting]
Gah! Ah!
[foreboding music playing]
[panting]
- [groans]
- [thud]
Oh. son...
son of a bitch.
Ah. Fuck.
[panting]
Fucking bitch!
[gasping and wheezing]
[groans]
[panting]
[clattering]
[gasping]
[gulping]
- [gasping]
- [bottle clattering]
[grunting]
[whimpering]
Breathe!
Fucking breathe.
[wheezing]
[heartbeat pounding. distorting]
[breathing slows]
[gasping]
[unsettling music playing]
[shivering and whimpering]
[gasping]
[sighing]
[water running]
[wind chimes ringing]
[wheezing]
[wheezing continues]
[footsteps creaking]
[pounding on door]
[man in distance]
Is anybody in there?
[lock rattling]
[door rattling]
[man] He's sick. Let's go.
[footsteps depart]
[wheezing]
[helicopter approaches]
[helicopter whirring loudly]
[helicopter departing]
[gasps]
[breathing slowly]
[exhales deeply]
[sighs]
[grunts]
[clattering]
[sighs]
- [gasping]
- [bottle clatters]
[bottle rattles and rolls]
[panting]
[clattering]
[grunting]
[splashing]
[gasping]
[bottle clatters]
[slurping]
[gasping]
[continues gasping]
[exhaling deeply]
Mom.
[whispers] Mom.
[moaning] Mom.
[insects buzzing]
[vibrating]
[breathing steadily]
[sighs]
[exhaling deeply]
[exhales]
[sighing]
Jesus Christ. Ish.
Rip Van fuckin' Winkle.
[distant thunder rumbling]
[sighs]
[keys jangle]
[engine sputtering]
[sputtering resumes]
[sputtering resumes.
engine turns over]
[engine revs]
- [seatbelt clicks]
- [sighs]
[shifts gears]
[woman. over recording]
Since the beginning of time.
humans have longed
to know the secrets
hidden within the land
upon which we stood.
To calculate its age and
understand its secrets.
and from this curiosity.
geology had its
nascent beginning.
And while others
looked to the stars
to divine meaning.
geologists have always
sought the treasures
that can only be found
by digging in the...
[switches stereo off]
[tense music playing]
[shifts gears]
[engine turns off.
seatbelt release clicks]
[flies buzzing]
[buzzing continues]
[whispers] Oh. my God.
[wind blowing]
[whirring]
[electronic beeping]
[beeping continues]
No. No!
♪
[male automated voice]
Viral outbreak has occurred.
It is highly
contagious and lethal.
No!
[Ish] Nature is taking back
all that was once hers.
- Everyone's dead. hon.
- [Ish] She gonna fight us.
never let us relax?
I haven't seen anyone
in the longest time!
[woman] I was sure I
was gon' die alone.
[Ish] But sufficiently
provoked...
You brought a family
to a knife fight.
There's hardly a
creature on earth
that won't turn and
attempt to fight.
Hope... that's how
we'll win in the end.
♪